# NumberSearch
NumberSearch is the public facing website for AccelerateNetworks a Seattle-area communication services company. 

It contains a session-based shopping cart and ecommerce system to enable customers to submit orders for product, services, and phone numbers. The primary feature is the [number searching system](https://acceleratenetworks.com/Search) which queries a PostgreSQL database hosted locally alongside the Mvc app to maximize performance. The [Ingest app](https://github.com/AccelerateNetworks/NumberSearch/blob/master/NumberSearch.Ingest/Program.cs) pulls between 300 thousand and a million phone numbers a day from a half dozen upstream VOIP carriers and refreshes the most popular area codes every 15 minutes.

Porting is the process of moving a phone number from one carrier to another. When customers switch their VOIP service to Accelerate Networks they often choose to retain their existing phone numbers by using the porting process. The [bulk number lookup process](https://acceleratenetworks.com/Lookup) allows enterprise customers to move hundreds of numbers over to our network in a single order. It also verifies the current carrier and caller Id records to help our customers make sure that they are bringing over the correct phone numbers. 

The Ops app is an administrative app for processing orders submitted through the Mvc app and handling line of business task like registering phone number for E911 service, completing port requests, and managing the hardware inventory deployed onsite to customers.

There are three supporting libraries: Tests, DataAccess, and FirstCom. Tests is where all our unit, integration, and functional tests are written. The tests verify that our code can correctly and consistently interact with our vendors and 3rd party dependencies. The DataAccess library is a set of models and SQL queries for interacting with the database that is shared between the Mvc, Ops, and Ingest apps. Finally the FirstCom library exists to isolate the autogenerated code required to interact with a vendor’s SOAP API endpoints.

[Try it out here!](https://acceleratenetworks.com/)

# Run locally on Windows 10
* Install [Visual Studio 2019 Community Edition](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/).
* Open Visual Studio 2019 (VS2019).
* Select the "Clone or check out code" option under "Getting Started" on the project selection splash screen.
* Login to Github if required.
* Clone this repo from the Master branch.
* With the project directory now open in VS2019 click the "NumberSearch.sln" file to configure Visual Studio.
* Click on the tab labelled "Package Manager Console" at the bottom of VS 2019.
* Run this command to setup a local secrets store "dotnet user-secrets init --project .\NumberSearch.Mvc".
* Then run this command "dotnet user-secrets init --project .\NumberSearch.Tests".
* More info and troubleshooting details on configuring [user-secrets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-3.0&tabs=windows).
* Run this command to register a secret "dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:TeleAPI" "<!replaceThisWithYourAPIKey>" --project .\NumberSearch.Mvc"
* Then run this command "dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:TeleAPI" "<!replaceThisWithYourAPIKey>" --project .\NumberSearch.Tests"
* At the top center of the VS2019 window there is a button with a green arrow labelled "IIS Express" this will run the project on a local web server.
* Click the dropdown arrow next to it to and hover over the "Web Browswer" option to set ISS Express to lanuch the application with your perfered web browser (Chrome) by default.
* Click the green arrow to run the project on localhost.

# Run on a Debian Server
Install [.Net Core SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/sdk), navigate to the project folder and run `dotnet publish --configuration Release` 
## Number Import
Create a cronjob using `crontab -e` to run the ingest:
```
23 1 * * *  /usr/bin/dotnet /var/www/numberSearch.Ingest/NumberSearch.Ingest.dll >> /var/log/NumberSearchIngest.log 2>&1
```
## Run as a service
Move numbersearch.service to the correct directory, enable it and start the process:
```
cp numbersearch.service /etc/systemd/system/numbersearch.service
chmod 644 /etc/systemd/system/numbersearch.service
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable numbersearch.service
systemctl start numbersearch.service
```

## Continuous Integration and Deployment
[Check out our Azure DevOps pipelines.](https://dev.azure.com/thomasaryan/NumberSearch/)
